# How Brian Chesky Is Redesigning Airbnb for the AI Era

**Fuente:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eURcW5_uS60&t=2292s
**Fecha:** 2026-05-07
**Tipo:** transcripción de video/podcast

---

No one is born a good CEO. I think people are basically born good founders. Or said differently, it's innate. You don't have to learn how to be a good founder. The job of CEO is completely counterintuitive. And almost all of your intuition about what to do is wrong. We founders, we're taught to learn by doing. And that's great for a founder. It's not good as a CEO. You do not want to learn on the job how to be a CEO. And so I learned the hard way. And it was really about not apologizing about how you run a company, being in the details. Before we hit go here, we were talking about industrial design, which you studied at RISD. And I have this weird affinity for the history of this topic, just because Raymond Lowy, one of the famous industrial designers, helped me a lot in my career indirectly. I'd love to hear you just riff on the influence that guys like him had in your early studies. And why you studied that in the first place. Such an interesting background. I was an artist growing up, but I didn't know what to do with my life. And I went to the Rhode Island School of Design. And at RISD, when you're a freshman, you have to pick a major. I'm 17 years old. And I'm like, OK, in three months, I've decided what I'm going to do the rest of my life. And there were 18 majors. And I remember the department head for industrial design came. I'd never even heard of the term industrial design. I didn't know what it was. And they said industrial design is the design of everything from a toothbrush to a spaceship and everything in between. I immediately said, that's what I want to do with my life. Because I was thinking of maybe being an architect or something like that. And so I started learning about industrial design. And I learned about Charles Ray Eames, Raymond Loewy. Raymond Loewy, probably the most important industrial designer of the 20th century, designed so many incredible products. This first designer, Air Force One, he designed a lot of consumer products. Very beautiful consumer products. He had a profound impact, I think, on society. And as I was studying the history of industrial design, it was so incredible. Because industrial design field is a deeply technical field. The thing about architecture is fairly technical, but it's a more known boundary. Like, there's buildings, and there's commercial, there's residential, there's retail. There's only so much variation. It's a multi-thousand-year-old, like, field. Industrial design, for the most part, really started with Josiah Wedgwood. It was like, it's really the mass industrial products. Industrial design is really new from the Industrial Revolution. And it used to be analog things. The first industrial design was chairs and tabletop dishes and bowls. But as technology grows, suddenly industrial design becomes cars and airplanes. And now you have microwaves and refrigerators. And then, eventually, it becomes like medical equipment. And then, you know, with computers, the most famous industrial design product in the world is the iPhone. And the vastness of industrial design is unbelievable. The intimate relationship you have with a product is incredible. I remember when I grew up in the 1980s, I loved video games. I, like, I played with a Game Boy, a Game Gear, Super Nintendo, these devices. Or remember Nike in the 80s and 90s, those sneakers, or the Reebok pumps. Like, these products captured kids' imaginations. And they had a very intimate relationship with you. They really had a sense of personality. And computers, in particular, were something I was really, really interested in. And then, of course, you get to the golden age of Apple, starting probably in 1998 with the iMac. And then to Johnny Ive, who was, like, my hero. So I went to RISD. And when I was at RISD, Apple was the golden age of industrial design. They really educated the public about design. Once they're educated, they can then see great products. And that really, like, captured my imagination. And what I loved about industrial design was, A, it was very technical. You work with mechanical engineers. You work with electrical engineers. B, here's the thing about industrial design. It's almost different than any other design. This is also true of fashion design. A design is only successful if it sells. So if we design an office building, like, architects can win awards in their office building, and it can never get leased. You can design a house, but no one looks at, well, what was the retail value of the house? So the awards are detached from the commercial success. If you design a product and no one buys it, it's considered a failure. And so because the commercial success matters, you have to think about marketing, manufacturing, distribution, solving problems. It's not just about winning awards. It's about being viable to a customer. The other thing is, it's very much a problem-solving field. It's got so many different boundaries. And it's very much about empathy, about user journeys. You know, more than I think any other design field, I think industrial design always seemed like it was the kind of field where you put yourself in the shoes of the user, and you design these user journeys. And I think they really teach industrial design through user journeys. I don't think they teach graphic design that way. At least they didn't at the time. It was a very specific type of field. And I think that really prepared me for designing. I'll just give you one example. One of the projects I designed when I graduated from RISD was a child's ventilator. And so instead of just thinking about, like, a child's breathing machine, instead of just thinking about the design of the ventilator, one of the projects I had to do was imagine being the child in a hospital. And so I had to imagine being a child. It's hard to do, but you're six years old. Imagine you're being six, and you're scared, and you're looking up at a breathing machine. And imagine the parents. The parents go in, and the parents are like, is my child going to be OK? If this breathing machine seems, like, ominous and, like, it's keeping you alive, the parents are going to freak out. Like, what's wrong with my child? The other thing is I learned that one of the interesting things that happened was the nurse technicians, they had no problem that these things were complicated. But the hospital wanted a breathing machine that was so simple that everyone can learn how to use it, except the nurse technicians had pride that only they knew how to use it. So you had to, like, weigh the stakeholders. How do you design something for the vantage point of a child? Consider how would it imbues to the parents? How could it be universally useful for everyone without threatening people's jobs? You see, there's so many dimensions. And that just, I think, really prepared me for this field. And I think there's a reason why I became a CEO, because there's no product managers in industrial design. Like, you are the PM. There's industrial designers, and there's engineers. And there's program managers. So the industrial designer is the product manager. So a design product is one function. Do you think the world's going to go that way now? You're obviously famous for helping usher in this founder mode idea. It seems like there's now—that was kind of pre-Opus 4.6 or whatever. There's, like, another layer to that now. I'm curious what we would call it. But it seems like, for the first time again, someone, even like you, running a very large company with lots of people, can disintermediate lots of the steps between idea and outcome. And this design stuff may be even more applicable than ever. What is the new mode like? Like, how would you describe—because everyone's trying to figure out, how do I run a company in this era? So how would you describe the new capabilities and the mode through the lens of this? I mean, basically, yeah. Founder mode was something that Paul Graham coined, but based on an experience I had. And the experience I basically had was, like, I felt like I was a—just to back up, I think people are basically born good founders. Or said differently, it's innate. You don't have to learn how to be a good founder. No one is born a good CEO. And the job of CEO is completely counterintuitive. And almost all of your intuition about what to do is wrong. Like, you listen to somebody, and you're like, they tell you something, you want to agree with them, and then you've got to be careful. And you don't know if you agree with them without getting the other side. Like, there's a lot of things that are counterintuitive about being a CEO. And so the problem is, we founders never were really prepared to be great CEOs. And I think we founders were taught to learn by doing. And that's great for a founder. It's not good as a CEO. You do not want to learn on the job how to be a CEO. In other words, trial and error is bad for a CEO. You know why trial and error is really bad? Because you hire somebody, they build an empire, they leave, and now you've got to unwind their empire. And it takes like four years. So you've wasted years. So actually, learning how to be CEO is something you should learn. And so I learned the hard way. And I basically learned that what happened was, founders were over-delegating their companies to these professional managers, not disparaging them, but they were detaching themselves, and they were being managed, rather than managing the company. And it was really about not apologizing about how you run a company, being in the details. That was founder mode. Was there a moment that clicked for you, that you had to change the mode? Yes, the pandemic. Two things happened. Actually, speaking of Johnny Ivan, Apple, and another person named Hiroki here. So I spent the 2010s riding a rocket ship, Airbnb, Uber, a few of us. We went on these crazy rocket ships that like Open Anthropic are doing now. It was awesome. It was amazing. But by the end of the last decade, around 2019, I remember waking up one day, and it was like completely unrecognizable, the company I was running. I mean, I had like 7,000 employees. I didn't know what anyone was doing. I felt like I was in a car without a steering wheel, and I just could not turn the company. I was like, turn left, and the company would go right. And actually, not only did I feel like I was not in control, I don't think anyone felt like they were in control. It was just a free-for-all. And it was just thousands of decisions being made for me, me overly deferring, not listening to my intuition. And I got to this point where I remember having this dream where I, and I told my co-founders, I had a dream in late 2019 where I felt like I'd left the company for 10 years, and I'd come back, and I was like, somebody had been running the company for 10 years, and they like kind of turned it into this like giant political bureaucracy, and I didn't even recognize the company. And then I realized, oh my God, it was me the whole time. And so it was my fault. Like I had actually enabled all this to happen. And then I started talking to people, and they all had the same experience. And all these founders felt like we were all made to feel crazy because we had this instinct. The pandemic was what it was. So around the same time as the pandemic, I hired a guy named Hiroki Asai. He was from Apple, and he told me about how Steve Jobs ran Apple. And Steve Jobs, when he came back to Apple in 1997, in July of 1997, there were nine days from bankruptcy, and he basically just like went into founder mode, what you call founder mode. He got into the details of every little detail. And I wanted to do that, but initially the company braced against it. It was almost like this, it repelled against it. And then the pandemic happened, and we lost 80% of our business in eight weeks. We were in total crisis mode. At that moment, I went from peacetime to wartime. And then I just totally took control of the entire company, and I just never let go. Basically what I did is I reviewed every single thing for two, three years. I worked like 100 hours a week, reviewed every little detail of the company. My vision wasn't do this forever. My vision wasn't to micromanage forever. My vision was before I empower people, I need to know what's going on. This notion that great leadership is hiring great people and trust them to know what to do, well how do you know they're great if you're not auditing what they're doing? And you actually want to start hands on, under control, and give ground grudgingly. Everyone does the opposite. They let go, they hire someone, they go in the wrong direction. And by the way, that's bad for the leader, you're not training them. So to bring it back to your question, that's founder mode. We need AI founder mode. AI founder mode is going to be even more intense than founder mode. I'm not yet ready to tell you what that is. I'm in the middle of it, but ... What are the principles that you're thinking about as you go into it, even if you don't have it ironed out yet? I think AI founder mode you're even in significantly more details, because you have almost everything on demand. The mechanism of founder mode was I had a lot of meetings, because that was the only way I could get information. So I probably did 35 hours of meetings, which is very similar to the way Steve ran Apple. So I wouldn't do one-on-ones, I'd only do group meetings. I'd do a recurring thing where I review every single thing in the company, either on a weekly basis, bi-weekly, monthly, or quarterly. Live, in person. Live, in person, group meeting, and I'd have the full chain of command. So I used to tell people, a lot of companies you have to get your boss to approve it, and your boss's boss to approve it, and your boss's boss's boss to approve it. I'd have the full chain of command in the room, and anyone could give their opinion. I would make all the final decisions. I would not speak first, I'd usually speak last, and I'd usually agree with the team, but 10% of the time I'd disagree, but I'd ratify every decision. It was a very clear chain of command. But this was a meeting-based culture. I think in AI, I think we're going to move away from meeting-based to asynchronous. And we're fairly remote, and so I think that will benefit us. I think we're going to have a lot fewer layers of management. I think there was an old famous saying, the Catholic Church has been going on for 2,000 years and only had four layers of management. Why do every other company have seven, eight, nine layers of management? I know there's this general idea, as a thought experiment, what if I could theoretically manage all 7,000 people flat? I don't think that's a good idea, I think that's an extreme, but I do think going to a few layers of management would make a lot of sense. I'm in the middle of trying to think about how to redesign the company. I think every single person in this company's job will change. What I'm amazingly doing now is trying to get people to adopt AI tools. And I want to see how everyone's job changes in the world of AI tooling. And then I want to basically embark on a fundamental redesign. I don't think people managers will have any value in the future. What I mean by people managers is people that only manage people. I think everyone's going to have to be a hybrid people manager or manager IC. Meaning they have to have contact with reality in some sense, like a thing a customer ends up seeing or doing. Yes. An engineer, recall, they have to be technical. In other words, every engineer needs a code, even the managers need a code. And whatever the version of that is for your field, you need a code. So if you're a lawyer, you're just not managing people, you have to actually read the case law and you have to get involved. And that makes sense, right? You can't just be like these managers where you're kind of people's therapist and you're just doing meetings, you're doing one-on-ones. I do not think people who have lots of recurring one-on-ones are not going to survive. Because what they're doing is like that, oh, you come with me with whatever problem is, I'm here to help you, like a mentor or professor. That kind of leadership style is not going to work. You need to have context. And I think a lot of people will survive this age of AI. The two types of people that will not survive the age of AI are two types of people, pure people managers who think it's all about just leadership. No, it's about content and leadership. And by the way, I hear about design leaders that the heads of design, they don't actually manage the design. Johnny Ive manages the design. He designs and he leads people. A design leader who only manages the people, that's crazy to me. The way Frank Lloyd managed his design team is through the work. I say you manage people through the work. You don't manage the people, you manage the work. Otherwise, what are you doing? I mean, yeah, like maybe a couple times a year you should have like a check-in and go out to dinner with a direct report, have a heart-to-heart, ask about their family, like build relationships. You should do that. You should have relationships. That's not a day-to-day thing. You're not their therapist. You're managing people through the work. So two types of people will not make the shift to AI are pure people managers and people that are rigid and don't want to change and evolve. As long as you're like got a growth mindset, I think the tools are going to be very easy. There's an economic incentive for the tools to be so easy, everyone can figure them out. So I don't think the AI tools are going to be complicated. Right now, there's a lot of command line. I think Claude Bode and coworker are not the most intuitive to an average person. But I think economic incentives will be for this to become incredibly intuitive. And I think maybe one last thought is AI is really an enterprise thing right now. If you take out Chachibit and like people screwing around like image generation, it's pretty much just an enterprise phenomenon. I'm on the board of Y Combinator, 175 companies last batch, 159 were enterprise. There are no consumer companies. Because there's no consumer companies, the incentive to make the interfaces really simple is not there because it's their job to figure out the interface. The next wave of AI is going to be consumer AI. Consumer AI is going to be the big prize. Can you think of a consumer AI company? Maybe open AI, but most of their energy is now going to Codex. Google, yeah, with Gemini, but most of it's still going to search. They don't want to cannibalize your business. So I think that's where it's all going to go. And I'm trying to start thinking about AI as a consumer play. And how do we make tools so simple that everyone here can figure out how to use them? Most software companies try to maximize your time on their app to juice engagement. Ramp does the exact opposite. Ramp understands that no one wants to spend hours chasing receipts, reviewing expense reports and checking for policy violations. So they built their tools to give that time back, using AI to automate 85% of expense reviews with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on Ramp, and my business does too. To see what happens when you eliminate the busy work, check out ramp.com slash invest. Felix by Rogo is a personal finance agent that turns a single prompt into finished, client-ready work using your firm's own templates, context, and standards. Send Felix an email like, take these comments and turn them for me, or update my tracker with the context of these emails, or run the ability to pay math on this buyer. And Felix sends back finished PowerPoint decks, Excel models, and sourced research. Felix works the way your team already does, delivering work quickly and accurately around the clock. Learn more at rogo.ai slash Felix. OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity, and Vercel all have something in common. They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To achieve enterprise adoption at scale, you have to deliver on core capabilities like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of spending months building these mission-critical capabilities yourself, you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all of them on day zero. That's why so many of the top AI teams you hear about already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the fastest way to become enterprise-ready and stay focused on what matters most, your product. Visit WorkOS.com to get started. It's surprising that so few have tackled consumer, some of the biggest companies in history are consumer companies. You built one of the great consumer companies of the last generation of companies. What advice would you give to people that do want to build consumer businesses using this technology? Like if the next batch of YC startups were to invert because of your advice, what would you tell them? How would you guide them? Yeah. Here are the three or four reasons I think it's happening. Number one, I think a lot of people, when Chachapiti came out, were afraid. They were afraid Chachapiti was going to kill their business. I think a lot of investors didn't want to invest in something where they thought Chachapiti was going to kill it. Number two, the business model is tricky. There is no yet consumer business model for AI that I've seen. For example, Chachapiti, there's three ways it can monetize. Subscriptions, unfortunately, they're probably going to hit a local maximum percentage of users subscribing because Claude and Gemini are giving away for free. Ads, again, they're hitting a local maximum because Claude, Gemini are not going to do ads. Then e-commerce, they shut down the third-party apps. The inference costs are expensive enough that they're burning a lot of money. I think the first thing is you need to have a business model around consumer AI. You can't just be in a business of information because people are not trained to pay for information. They're not trained to do that. That's the first problem. The second problem is distribution is mature. Now, again, top three apps are AI, so it does prove you have something revolutionary. You'll find your way to the top. The third thing is, while I think Silicon Valley, we like to describe ourselves as rebels, I think, and maybe it's a little bit like the always-on nature of Twitter, I think it's very trend-based and vibe-based. I think there's a sense that everyone ... There's a little bit of everyone kind of does what everyone kind of does. That makes sense. I think the trend is enterprise. The other thing is with Y Combinator, and this is ... I'm on the board of Y Combinator, so I have a good ... We tell entrepreneurs, get other YC startups to be your first users. It's a really great distribution strategy. The way we got our first users is you do things that don't scale. What happened was that has taken the logical extension that everyone just keeps making enterprise companies. Maybe finally, the reason people aren't doing consumer companies is they're just harder. They're more hits-driven. The prize is bigger, but the risk is higher. It's more all or nothing. You can pick a narrow vertical, build a good medium to large-sized business. It's pretty straightforward. You can get other YC companies to adopt it, and you can grow into larger and larger enterprise. You can pick a sliver, vertically integrate with AI. It's very straightforward. It is much more hits-driven business. You have to be good at a lot more things. You generally have to be better at design, marketing, culture, press. It's not purely technology and sales, which is what I'd say enterprise is. You make a product. It can be a technology-based product. Oftentimes in enterprise, the person using the product is not the person buying the product, and so sales becomes really important, but you can start sales really smart in companies. It's really hard to figure out how do you start small consumer. Who do you start with on the street? I think these are the reasons why. My prediction is that we're living in the age of enterprise AI, and I think in the next 12 to 24 months, you're going to see the beginning of a consumer AI renaissance. I mean, almost every app on my home screen has not changed fundamentally since AI, including Airbnb. I think that's going to change in two years. Yeah. On your most recent earning call, you referenced this thing, Project Hawaii, I think it was called, which is like the on-the-ground, direct application of the soon-to-be-defined founder AI mode or whatever. Maybe just describe what that is and how you as an incumbent consumer company are trying to make yourself into one of these AI companies, and sort of what's possible with a project like this. This is such a great story. I had this conundrum. We had like 7,000 people, or we were down to 5,000, and I wanted to basically take the magic of the founding of the company, the early stages. We were in this little apartment working together, and I wanted to work with a team of 10 people, and I wanted to have that team work on one problem. We said, let's put a team together to focus on improving the guest experience, improving conversion rate. Conversion rate's basically search to book, the conversion rate of people typing in the location and dates and booking. And there's a funnel, and you can basically measure the funnel, and you can do A-B test. But more than A-B testing, I wanted to do something where the north star was, let's make the experience better and increase conversion. We're going to start with a better user experience. And so we put together a team of, I think it was like 10 or 12 people, designers, engineers, a couple of product people, data scientists. It was mostly just a pure software team. And we treated it like a little startup, and we said, we're going to just focus, and we're going to do a system of crawl, walk, run, then fly. Crawl, fix the bugs, fix the problems of conversion rate, just the easy things. Once you build a little bit more confidence, walk. Start to develop features, really start to reframe the journey, then run. Rethink the entire flow, big features, fly, completely reinvent yourself. And everything's going to be measured. The team's results were phenomenal. They ended up delivering the equivalent of, I think in year one, $200, $300 million in revenue for the company. The following year was like $400 or $500 million. Now we're at a run rate of like over 600 basis points, 600 basis points of $13, $14 billion. You get the sense of how much of a lever that is. It was just one team. I mean, it grew into dozens and dozens of people, maybe 50 or 60 people, but it was this really lean team. We took that team, we said, what if we apply it to the next problem, pricing? Same people, another team, totally different team, same model, then another model, then another model. So it was really, and I really tried to work with a team, and initially I would meet with them every week, and then it became every other week, and then every month. My general philosophy is start really hands on, and let go over time. It's like, I'm not a golfer, but I took a couple golf lessons as a golf instructor. Here's an analogy for management. If you learn golf, you want to learn with a golf instructor before you build any habits. Because if you learn on your own, you're going to have a weird swing. And then when you get a golf instructor, they got to change your muscle memory. So the golf instructor's got to watch you swing like thousands of times. Eventually, they don't need to see it, or you let go over time. What most founders do is the opposite. They bring these people in, they let them figure it out, and then they intervene later, but they already have the wrong muscle memory. So I decided I'm going to be totally hands on, do everything with the team, teach them everything I know, and let go. That'd do it with the next team. And then I had teams learn from other teams. Then when we launched Services Experiences, we basically found this other way of innovating. So here's a riddle, or it was a riddle to me. Airbnb, we had this core business that was really successful. It did nearly $100 billion a year in gross sales. For every $1,000 spent in the world, $1 was spent on an Airbnb. Except we had the problem of we're like a one-hit wonder. And for 18 years, I couldn't get a second hit out. And I kept wondering, why is this not working? And the answer is too obvious. It was staring us in the face, but we kept having the burden of trying to scale these businesses at a global scale from the beginning. When we started Airbnb, we started in one city, New York City. We had 100 users. I was in Y Combinator. Paul Graham goes, where are your users? I'm like, during Y Combinator, I'm like, they're in New York. We have not many, but they're in New York. He goes, you're in Mountain View, you're using New York, what are you doing here? Go to Mountain View. We went door-to-door meeting users. The basic philosophy is make the problem as small as possible. Get to product-market fit, then scale. So we launched Service Experiences last year, and it didn't work right away. And I'm like, oh shit. We launched Service Experiences in 100 cities. And I went back and I thought to myself, wait a second, Airbnb launched in New York, Uber launched in San Francisco, DoorDash launched in Palo Alto. Let's make the problem small and just perfect a city. And so we started doing this with new businesses. We basically, any new business, we're going to do one to 10 to many. We'll pilot in one market, any idea. If we get the market to work, we'll go to 10. If we get to 10, it works, we'll industrialize. We spent, took us 16 years to get to our second and third business. We started getting those two working. Now we have like 10 to 20 pilots. Eventually, we'll have 70, 50 to 70 new verticals. So these are the, this is like the Hawaii system. It's basically taking this giant company, making it a really small elite team, so the Navy, it's like the Navy SEALs. I work with the teams really, really leanly. Make the problem as small as possible. I think that's a key thing. Make the problem as small as possible. Dominate a niche. Peter Thiel used to say this. He was one of our first investors. He said, it's better to have a monopoly of a tiny market than a small share of a big market. This is counterintuitive. Every investor wants to go into big markets. I don't like big markets. Big markets have a lot of competition. Go into a small market and make it big. Is the reason for both of these things, the idea that it works in Toronto, but not at a hundred scale, a hundred city scale, and the reason a 10 person team can outperform a hundred person team, is the shared reason some sort of like better contact with reality and like somehow reality starts getting distorted as you get bigger or something? The general principle, this comes back to the most important piece of advice I ever got. The first AY commentator, Paul Graham, said, it's better to have a hundred people love you than a million people sort of like you. And that came from Paul Buchheit. Paul Buchheit was a partner of AY commentator. He created Gmail. And I think that this old famous story was he created Gmail and it took him two years and they said, you can't ship it until a hundred people inside of Google love it. And it actually took like two years to get a hundred people to actually like the product. But once a hundred people like something, a hundred million people like it. It's like the sample size is enough. And so the problem is you try to make something a million people like, you can't talk to a million people. And so you end up like with this shallow swimming pool. It's like you're trying to heat up an ocean and the ocean just, it takes too long to heat up and you can't tell. Instead of heating up an ocean, heat up a bathtub and like just make the problem as small as possible. And you're close to the customer. In fact, if you only are focused on one city or even a subset of city, you can talk to every person. You can put all of these resources on a tiny problem. And I guarantee you take a ton of resources you put on a tiny problem. The smaller the problem, the more you'll change the numbers, the trajectory. And that will teach you lessons. In other words, you do things that don't scale, then you scale. And the scaling is industrialization. But product market fit is a distinct problem from industrialization. So you want to basically make the problem as small as possible, understand the user, put yourself in their shoes, blow their mind, do things you've never thought before, do them by hand, make them unscalable, don't worry how much it costs, just prove the model. In other words, it's like R&D. In fact, this is a lot like industrial design. This is what we call prototyping. Before you manufacture something, you prototype. You make prototype after prototype after prototype, until you make something that you love for yourself or someone loves. So yes, the smaller the problem, the more there's fewer abstraction layers. You're actually on the ground. You're talking to people. And that's how you prove it. Hawaii to these pilots, it's all the same thing. By the way, same thing with AI. You're removing abstraction layers, and you're making the problem as small as possible, and you're going directly to the source. I think that's a principle that all these things have in common. It's like we're playing this game of telephone if we don't do it that way, and you just lose information each time communication goes bad. And this is why founders don't like running large companies, because they end up in a game of telephone. They say something, and then it goes down like five layers, and then it goes back up five layers, and they're in these meetings, and the meetings become system reviews. And literally, the lowest point for me was when I was having meetings about meetings. It was very meta. You've gotten into this new mode. It's called founder mode. It's not called CEO mode. Do you think you're now a good CEO? I think I am. I think I was naturally a good founder, although I would say I also got really lucky, because I had two great co-founders, and damn, did I luck out on that. I think I was a very good early stage CEO, and I think the moment I had to have an executive team, I really struggled to make the shift from a founder to CEO. I really struggled. And I think in the 2010s, I do not think I was a great CEO, and I think that we paid the price for my learning curve. And I think the pandemic was a rude awakening for me. I think I was conflict-averse. By the way, somebody once said a pitcher never takes himself off the mound. As a manager, you've got to go take them off the mound. I was always helping people. I didn't want to hurt people's feelings. I wanted them to take them off the mound. And the longer you leave a pitcher on the mound, the more home runs they give up, the more upsetting they're getting, and they're still going to be angry at you no matter when you take them off the mound. So I don't think I was naturally a good CEO. And I remember up to the pandemic, at one point I wonder, I wonder if I'm just not meant to be a CEO. Maybe I'm not meant to do it. And then the pandemic happened. We had a near-death experience, and I said, well, there's no – screw all the rumination. Is it do or die? And I feel like I learned how to do the job. And there's really a few phases of CEO. Have an idea. Get to product-market fit. Product-market fit to hyper-growth. Hyper-growth scale to become a real company. Real company as in profitable public. And then the last stage – and I did all that. We have 40% free cash flow margin. We're very profitable. We do $100 billion in sales, customer sales. The last phase of a CEO is reinventing the company. Product extension. And the reason our stock has been flat is because we only do one thing, and we have kind of – we've started to saturate a little bit of the core idea. So we've had to reinvent ourselves. We had to do product extension. So I've still got to prove myself. And then there's another proof point. Can I navigate this transformation of AI? By the way, I think founder mode is going to be the only way to operate in the age of AI. If you're a giant professional CEO, I think you can operate in founder mode. But if you're risk-averse, you want to be incremental, those types of people are not going to survive the age of AI. So I think there was an old Albert Einstein quote. He said, the best way to keep a balance on a bicycle is to keep moving. You're going to have to keep moving. So I think that founders are going to be really well-primed or really well-set up for this age of AI, because we kind of have to redesign our whole company from scratch again. Was there anything else that Hiroki taught you? Because Steve was perhaps the literal ultimate example of everything you just said, focused on the details, in the weeds forever, reinvention of the company. Yeah, Hiroki. So I would love to say, and before I say, just to say who Hiroki is, everyone knows Johnny Ive. Hiroki is a bit of an unsung hero. I always heard about him. He's like this legendary mythical figure that was elusive. There's almost no photos of him online. There's no videos of him. He was never out in front, but he was Steve Jobs' creative director. It was a function under marketing. He did the ads. He did the graphic design. He was really responsible for when he was that black type with a gray font and the product in front of white. That was really his aesthetic. He taught me two principles of Apple that I brought. One was simplicity. When you start a company, because you have no money and you're so constrained, you're naturally simple. Lack of abundance creates natural constraints. So simplicity is thrust upon you, and that is good for you. And then once you raise a bunch of money and hire a bunch of people, you go to a lot of directions, then you lose your sense of focus. How many startups can we think of today who have struggled from lack of focus? We can probably name a few. So you start to lose your muscle for simplicity. Hiroki taught me simplicity, and he taught me that simplicity is not removing things. Simplicity is distilling something so fundamentally that you understand its essence. I know Steve used to say, design is the fundamental soul of a man-made creation that reveals itself through subsequent layers. Isn't that a beautiful saying? In other words, great design is about distilling something to its essence. It's kind of what Elon does with SpaceX, where he talks about first principles. And first principles is kind of like a physics term, but it's also a design term. It's about understanding. If I'm going to reinvent this product, I have to understand the properties of glass. I have to understand everything about it to distill it to its essence. So I got obsessed with simplicity. Simplicity of our products, simplicity of our organization, simplicity of everything. The other one was a sense of craft and details. How you do anything is how you do everything. And I said, everything must be perfect. It comes from, there's a book that a lot of people at Silicon Valley recommend, The Score Takes Care of Itself. Bill Walsh, the coach of the San Francisco 49ers, John Woodin, winning his coach in college basketball history, UCLA, same principle. First day at UCLA. So John Woodin, won 10 NCAA champions over 12 years. First day, first hour on his team, he spends an hour teaching you how to put your socks on. One hour, and he said, put your socks on this way. Very Mr. Miyagi. Yeah. One hour teaching you how to put your socks on. It's a metaphor. Everything was that rigorous. Bill Walsh said, the way you tuck your jersey into your pants was one of 10,000 details that depend on whether you won or not. Basically, don't focus on winning. Focus on getting all the inputs perfect. And you get everything perfect, then you will win. And you don't focus on the scorecard. And so we do focus on growth, but we kind of stop focusing on growth. We started focusing on making everything perfect. And if everything is perfect and you don't grow, then you focus on the wrong inputs. But if you have the right inputs and you make them perfect, then you'll grow really fast. And so that's really what I learned from him. And I just, he really taught me, I think, Founder Mode, because I'd never met Steve. So I only knew through Hiroki. And I said, well, I love this. I'm an artist. I'm a designer. I get to have more control of the product. I get to make everything perfect. The initial attempt at Founder Mode created giant revolts. Everyone hated it, because everyone thought I was micromanaging them. Taking their shit. Taking their shit. And I learned something fundamental. Initially everyone hated it, and by the end, everyone loved it. Now, the people who hated it left, so maybe there's selection bias. The people liked it stayed. But even the people that thought they wanted autonomy and independence and empowerment, what they didn't realize was control and power is not zero sum. It's not like if I have all the power, you don't. There's a scenario where we're all powerless. And there's also a scenario where if I have power, I can therefore give you power. It's not zero sum. This is the problem people don't understand. If I have more power and control, I can give you more power and control, and I can hand it off to you. It's about the idea that the car has a steering wheel. You turn it left, and it actually goes left. That's the basic idea. I do think it's all about the company rowing in one direction. That's it. The thing that you've said historically that had the largest impact on me was this notion of the 11-star experience, the exercise of going from not a five-star, but a six-star and actually forcing yourself to ride it. And I have this idea in mind because of this idea of simplicity and distillation, and it's a beautiful thing. I guess it's ultimately empathetic with the customer. But why is that idea in practice so powerful? What happens as you go down or up the star count to 11 stars? Why is that such a valuable exercise? Let me do a one-minute on what it is. So basically, when you book an Airbnb, most people leave a five-star. And if you leave a four-star, it's a bad experience. Five-star, everything went as planned. So it's called review compression. Same word at Uber. You always leave a five-star. And if you leave anything other than a five-star, something really went wrong. But what if the driver was really amazing? You can only leave a five-star. So I started imagining, what if we could give a six-star? And I did this exercise from six to like 10 or 11 stars. So a five-star, let's say take one moment checking into Airbnb. Five-star check-in is you get there, and the host greets you, or there's a door code, and it works. In other words, nothing went wrong, and you give a five-star. Nothing went wrong, and you give a four-star or less. But that's review compression. What if you went above and beyond? So what would a six-star look like? A six-star would look like you basically get to the Airbnb, and there's your favorite wine on the table, and there's fruit, and there's snacks there, and there's a handwritten card. Okay, that's better than just letting me in the house. So what's a seven-star experience? Seven-star experience, there's a limousine or something waiting for me at the airport. They know I like surfing. There's a surfboard waiting for me, and they're showing me around the city. There's all this stuff. So what's an eight-star experience? An eight-star experience, I get to the airport. There's an elephant. I go on the elephant. I go on a parade in my honor. I'm like, wow, I feel really special. What's a nine-star experience? I call it the Beatles check-in. I get off the plane in 1964 Beatles. There's 5,000 teenage girls screaming my name with cards making me feel like I'm a pop star. I get to the front lawn of the Airbnb, and there's a press conference in my name. So what's a 10-star experience? 10-star experience, Elon Musk greets me and takes me to space, right? The reason you do this, and it's an exercise, it's an exercise in the absurd. You keep pushing to go so absurd to 10 stars that suddenly six or seven stars doesn't seem crazy at all. The way to get to product-market fit is to just create a six- or seven-star experience. You can't create a six- or seven-star experience without going beyond. In other words, go beyond the edge of reality and work backwards. So it's kind of a fun exercise. What would the craziest possible way to blow someone's mind, one person's mind, one customer, and maybe try that, and maybe you can't scale that, because that's like an eight-star experience. But you can probably scale a six-star. And that difference between the five and six stars is probably the difference between you and a competitor. And if you can find a way to industrialize it and scale it, you might have product-market fit in something special. One of the things that I think about when you give the absurd examples at the high end of the range is this feeling that I've experienced with AI that my imagination had almost atrophied, that by using these tools, I realized how hard it was. Like, oh, I can make anything. And I sit down, I'm like, I have no fucking idea what to make. And that as I started making little things, all of a sudden, my imagination got rebooted. And it feels like this exercise is like an imagination exercise. It is. One of the sayings is great writing is great thinking. But I find that, I don't know about you, some people have ideas, and they think of ideas, and they write them down. One of the things I figured out to do is through the act of writing. The act of writing is the act of coming up with ideas. The act of designing is the act of coming up with ideas. It's really hard to just sit in a room and abstractly think of ideas. You need to do something. And so I think what was happening was we didn't have enough tools to express ourselves. I think a lot of the tools were very passive tools. I think increasingly, we were spending more and more time on a sit-back experience like social media. I think AI shifts our attention from consumption to creation. Because I mean, social media, a lot of us spend our time on, and the only type of creation is like giving your opinion or posting, but you're mostly consuming. What I love about AI is it's not about opinions. Suddenly all of us have a paintbrush and a canvas to make stuff. And I think that AI is going to lead to a renaissance in creativity. I was an artist growing up. I was a pretty good artist. I had the ability to express ideas. Here's an analogy. You ever meet a person, like there's probably, I could probably think of musicians, like Prince, you name a musician, that probably in words couldn't express themselves. But then through music, there's like this dimension you never knew. An artist, they seem really reserved, but their art is like really emotional. So many of us have this creativity inside of us, but we don't have the craftsmanship or tools to express it. And suddenly what AI is going to do is going to give us the ability to express it. We're going to realize there are a lot more creative people than we thought, because we typically think of creative people as people that know how to express their creativity. It turns out, what if everyone can express it? Pablo Picasso once said, all children are born artists, so problems remain to artists as one grows up. Every child's creative. If every child's creative, that means every adult could be creative. I think that every human on this planet is creative. You ask the average person, are you creative? About one in two says they're not. That's my experience. That's not true. It's just that they haven't exercised the muscle. And I think that the magic of AI is what's in our head can manifest. But also, as you said, we can develop new ideas in our head, because it's a relationship. We maybe have a small idea, we try something, it gives another idea, and you go on this journey. A lot of people call founders visionaries. We're more expeditionaries. We're on these expeditions. We only call it visions later. We're really just one foot in front of the other. Can you talk about the difference between the act of creation in pursuit of, you said people-pleasing earlier, achievement, notches on the belt, versus just for the raw, pure joy of it, which seems to be more the mode you're in now? I think when I started Airbnb, I don't think we were totally trying to be successful. I mean, literally, I won't go through the whole founding story, but basically, I inflated three air mattresses, and Airbnb stands for air, bed, and breakfast. And I like to joke that if I was trying to make money, I would have come up with a better idea than air, bed, and breakfast. I truly did it for the love and the fun. And somewhere along the way, I got really successful, and that almost became a curse, because the success became a scorecard. And then I wanted to get even more successful. And it stopped being intrinsic, and it started being a version of status and people-pleasing. You see, it took me a little while to realize what I was doing. What I really wanted was love. I learned, growing up as a child, the way to get love is to be special, and the way to be special is to do special things. And if I do special things, I get praise, and I feel love. I think that translated into, if I'm really successful, I will get adulation, and if I get adulation, I'll feel that feeling that I'm always seeking. And by the way, I didn't do this consciously. I'm not saying this. It took me many years to realize this is what I was doing. The problem with adulation, by the way, adulation is kind of like seeking status. So many people seek status, but the problem is that's not where great products and great companies come from. See, adulation is like a cup with a hole at the bottom, and you keep filling it in, thinking it's love, except it just keeps coming out the bottom. And at some point, you have to confront, who am I doing this for? Am I doing it for other people, for them to briefly love me and commend me, to then move on? And either way, that's a drug, and it's a drug that you need, it's like real drugs. You need a greater hit to get the high, and eventually it stops working, and eventually you reach a peak, and it gets really meaningless and empty. And that happened to me. And at some point around the pandemic, we go public, we have a $100 billion valuation. It's like one of the best days of my life, and the next day I wake up. We were on Zoom because of the pandemic, and I wake up, I put on sweatpants, I go on a Zoom meeting. It was like it never happened, and it became the saddest day of my life, because I realized, okay, what now? What do I do now? I lost adulation, and I don't feel any different. And that made me re-evaluate what I'm doing this for. I had to just come to terms with, I want to do things for pure, intrinsic reasons. And so I had to basically just detach myself from people's approval, from status, from worrying about how hot Airbnb is, or how successful I am, which I never gave a shit about when we started. You start getting accolades, and you want more of them, and you've got to let go of that, because it's a losing game. And I just really started focusing on just being heads down. Do the work like you used to do, like when you were a kid, there was light. Just make stuff. Make it for yourself. That great book Rick Rubin, he says, an artist is an artist when they make it for themselves, and they don't try to make something successful. I stopped trying to be successful, and I just went back to the basics. And I realized, a person who doesn't know you will never love you. That's okay. The people who love you are the people that know you, and the most important person to love you is yourself, and we should love is the thing you're doing. So this became a whole thing. It became about just doing it because you love it, putting your heart and soul in it. It's like the score takes care of itself. It goes back to that. Don't try to be successful. Try to do something wonderful that you love for yourself, and maybe you'll be successful, maybe you don't, but don't focus on who you want to be. Focus on what you want to do. That was the advice President Obama once told me. He said, if I focus on who I want to be, and I focus on being President of the United States, and I wasn't, my life would have been a failure, but if I focus on what I want to do, I want to help people, I want to be a community organizer, then I don't need to be President. And so I think so many entrepreneurs focus on what they want to be. I want to be a giant tech founder. I want to run a billion-dollar company. I want to do this. I want to do that. Instead of focusing on what do I want to make, and then suddenly there's no way to fail if you're making what you love. That's an incredible set of ideas. I'm curious what most fell away in your life in this recent period as a result of this shift in mindset. What do you do less of that you used to do a lot of when you stopped chasing adulation? Mostly ruminating. You ruminate less? Yeah. Just worrying about people's opinions of me. There's something mildly narcissistic about worrying about everyone's opinions as if they're all thinking about you. No one is. The reality is even people watching this, I'm going to be self-conscious, except for a moment they're going to think about me, but then they're going to be mostly thinking about themselves, and that's okay. And all of us are thinking, everyone's thinking about us, and they're thinking about themselves or the people in their life. They're not thinking about some guy on a podcast except for maybe an hour, and then it's over. And then they're thinking about the people in their life. So letting go of what people think about you, because that's a prison, because then suddenly you're making things for approval, and then you lose your courage. That's the main thing. It's just the mental energy. But I really try to do things that are meaningful, and meaningful things are really two buckets. It's making and spending time with people I care about. Those are the two things. Anything else is kind of an obligation where I'll do it once in a while. As your business scales up, everything gets more complex, especially your compliance and security needs. With so many tools offering band-aids and patches, it's unfortunately far too easy for something to slip through the cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful tool designed to simplify and automate your security work and deliver a single source of truth for compliance and risk. There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them to focus on building amazing differentiated products, knowing that compliance and security are under control. Invest like the best listeners get a special offer of $1,000 off Vanta when you go to vanta.com slash invest. I know firsthand how complex the tech stack is for asset management firms, and seemingly every new tool and data source makes the problem even worse, adding more complexity, more headcount, and more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way forward, one unified platform that automates away that complexity across portfolio accounting, reconciliation, reporting, trading, compliance, and more, all at scale. Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment management, helping ambitious firms scale faster, operate smarter, and stay ahead of the curve. To see what Ridgeline can unlock for your firm, schedule a demo at ridgeline.ai. There are two very different ideas I'm curious for you to react to. The first was made famous by Warren Buffett, who said, you want to buy as an investor businesses that a ham sandwich could run, because eventually one will. Not to pick on anyone, but think about the card payment processors like Visa or MasterCard, like just extremely elegant business models. Actually, a network effect businesses like Airbnb tend to be in this category. And then you've got this opposite end of the spectrum, which is one of my favorite investors, an early stage investor, said he tells every founder that they should think about the company as a platform or a vehicle for their own personal growth, and that their ability to grow will set the ceiling for the company. This is sort of like opposite ideas. And we've been talking a lot more about leadership in this second bucket. I'm curious how you think about whether or not you care that if eventually a ham sandwich ran Airbnb, the business model would be so perfected that it wouldn't matter in the Warren Buffett sense. And just like in general, how you think about if that's true, that your ceiling is the company ceiling as its leader. I think they're both true. Let me try to square those with one example. I agree with both sentiments. Here's an example, Walt Disney. So people watching, I want them to try to name a Paramount Pictures film. I want you to name a Warner Brothers film. Maybe you'll think of like Batman. I want you to name a Universal Pictures film. I want you to name something from the MGM library. Pretty hard, right? But I bet you can name a lot of Disney films, and probably Pixar during their golden age. There's a big difference in those two. One is that Disney was very founder-led, and that Disney was all about a personal expression of one man. And the irony is, the longer a company is run by founders in a founder mode, the more I think it can let go and anyone can run it. I think Disney, not to take away from the CEO of Disney, the new guy Josh is really great. I've met him. He's great. And I think they've had a lot of good CEOs. But I generally think the CEO of Disney has the bases loaded. You've got this incredible theme park that people are going to visit no matter how well it's run. They've got this incredible IP. It's not that it's an easy job, but Walt left so much. And I remember I was speaking to the former CFO of Disney once. This was like 10 years ago, and he said, Disney hasn't really done anything new since Walt died. Walt died in 1966. Since 1966, we still make feature films, TV, and Magic Kingdoms. And of course, yeah, they do new things, but fundamentally, that's the same playbook. And so I do think that that's an example where the founder reinventing the company and their expression created such a reservoir of IP, of momentum, that he died 50 years ago. 50 years later, Walt Disney's spirit seems very, very omnipresent, whereas Louis B. Meyer, I don't know if most people can tell you which studio he was. I think it was MGM, and I couldn't even tell you the other two people. See what I'm saying? There's a huge difference. So I generally think this is a paradox. I think, yeah, the ham sandwich, have a business so good, and you can run it, because sooner or later, they will. The best businesses are ones that founders run, and they reinvent, and they create so much equity in such a great moat that then when they hand it off, they will endure and grow after them. I think Apple's a series similar. They've had not had to invent new products for the most part. Those still running the iPhone, I mean, what a gift Steve left them. They were a few hundred billion dollar company when he died. They're like a multi-trillion dollar company now. I think the one caveat is I think tech companies are different. Warren Buffett generally didn't invest in tech companies, with the exception of Apple. So I think Coca-Cola was a big investment of his, or like See's Candy. These are things that don't get disrupted. I think technology is a synonym for change. If we're in the change industry, you kind of need to be more in founder mode more time. I think that's how I square it, that the company is the upper bound of the founder's potential. Then the longer you're in founder mode, the more it will endure. I remember one founder told me, I want this company to last 100 years, so therefore I can't be in all the details, and so therefore I need to empower people. I remember saying, if you want something to be around for 100 years, you want to control it as long as possible and keep it in founder mode as long as possible, like Disney. That's my theory. I think that's counterintuitive. I think people say, oh, but the company is going to get very dependent on you. Well, yeah, but the alternative is you're going to have so institutionalized this magic that it can't endure after you. Edwin Land, the founder of Polaroid, was very famous for using Ansel Adams as his ultimate tester of his equipment, and so he cared about the most important, maybe best photographer of all time, what he thought of his device. Comes to mind when you talk about Disney because there's something about ... I have this visual of Walt just continuing to drill down to some sort of bedrock or something, and that's the mission that you're on as a founder, is bedrock. Yeah, I love that. What is that for you from this point forward? As you keep drilling, what is the nature? What do you think you're still after? Where is there still room for your ceiling to raise so that the businesses can? A few things come to mind. When people think of Airbnb, if you close your eyes and say, I want you to think of a picture of Airbnb, you probably think of a house, where a noun and a verb like Kleenex, which is amazing and not amazing. It's amazing in that we're kind of the category leader. It's also tough because when you're Kleenex and you want to sell shampoo, they're like, wait a second, I'm not putting Kleenex on my head. It's a double-edged sword, our brand. The bedrock for me is, how do I change the atomic unit of Airbnb from a home to a person? I do not want Airbnb to be about homes. I want it to be about people, and I want the people to be the atomic unit. On Airbnb, you get a home, you get an experience, you get a service, eventually a flight, eventually this, that. Imagine a person in the center with a ring with 50 things around. These are the things you can get. That is the thing. The bedrock of Airbnb is going to be identity, profile, the person's preferences. I want to develop the most authenticated identity on the internet. Proof of personhood is going to be really, really important in the age of AI, artificial. I want to develop the most robust profile on the internet. I mean, it used to be Facebook. They've kind of abandoned that strategy. I want to build one of the richest preference libraries of you as a person because that would be useful to have. I want to build a social graph, but in the real world. I want to eventually have a membership program where you get all these different benefits. The bedrock is the person. Then I want to basically figure out how we can launch, like Amazon, Amazon from books to 100 things. I don't want us to just have homes. I want us to have 100 things. We need to develop this industrialized machine of understanding what are the atomic units or the primitives that are consistent across all these different businesses. Then the last one is AI. We have a bit of the innovator's dilemma. Plus or minus $100 billion goes through our app. I have all these visions that are like, totally change it, but you're in a public company and you're giving guidance. The difference between missing and hitting earnings is you really ... Not just being public company. People's livelihood depends on Airbnb. If we mess with something, somebody could go from making a living to not making a living. You've got to be very careful, and yet that is not an environment for mass innovation when you're being really careful. I'm also exploring little sandboxes, maybe almost like a separate app. What is a radically different Airbnb? It's like, what's after Airbnb? What's Airbnb and C? What's that? What's the next? I'm starting to think about ... Those are the three things I'm thinking about. Number one, how do we take the atomic unit from a home to a person? Number two, how do we basically industrialize what Airbnb offers to do 50 things, not three things? Then how do we disrupt ourselves before someone else does with AI without screwing over our investors and our hosts who depend on us? Maybe the last thing I'm thinking, just as a CEO, is I think I've reached a certain level of mastery. I've reached the mastery of product market fit, hyper growth, profitability. I'm beginning level four. Level four is reinventing yourself, product extension. I think there's something potentially even beyond that in the age of AI, which is one of my strengths is all my experience, and that's also my weakness now. I'm 44. I'm not old, but I'm not young. I'm not AI native in the same way a 22-year-old is. That doesn't even ... Here's a bad example. When I started me, I was 25, 26, and we were competing against Expedia. They were on Outlook, and we used Google Docs, and we had an iPhone. It all seems anachronistic now, but back then, that was innovative, and we were on the coolest new tools, and we just moved faster. Pablo Picasso, another quote he said, the older you get, the stronger the wind gets, and it's always in your face. You gotta stay light on your feet. You gotta stay young. You gotta keep reinventing yourself. You gotta have curiosity, and so I don't want to become like this old school person in the groove. I gotta reinvent myself. One of the things that, as I've been building stuff myself, really for the first time ... I'm not an engineer. I used to build stuff, but I'd tell people, and the feedback loop was painfully slow and lossy. Now, it's like five to 15 minutes and pretty high fidelity, and soon it'll be five seconds and perfect fidelity, and so there's this ... I always loved Brett Victor's idea of wanting to be as close to the input and the output being as linked as possible, and we're getting to that stage. The anxiety I have having this experience is that it feels like just nothing will last, and as I think about ... I love business. I love business as an art form, I guess, that historically, there's been these ways to have enduring moats, people would always call them. You have 200 million people that you know a lot about already. You've got hundreds of millions of reviews, lots of information on places. You have these embedded things that you can't ... I can't just get that from you, but it just seems as I build this stuff, like, oh, it's gonna be really hard to have something enduring and lasting now. Do you share that anxiety? How does that make you feel? As the frictions fall, it also feels like the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow is disappearing into the distance or something. Take a fashion brand like Hermes, I think the most valuable fashion, single fashion brand in the world, and the Birkin bag and the Kelly bag, it's like they have a new product every decade or something. These are multi-decade old things, and they appreciate and they resale, and then you've got Zara fast fashion. I feel like we all want to make these things that endure, but we're living in the hyper fast fashion of software. If you look at software from 10 years ago, no matter how great it was at the time, it looks really old and dated. If you look at hardware from 10 years ago, it looks pretty decent. If you look at interior design, it looks pretty good. Or better. Or better. You look at buildings, and after a certain period of time, they've got this patina and they're wonderful. You go to Paris, and old endures. So environments and physical worlds have got huge endurance. Hardware and physical things have medium endurance. Software is extremely ephemeral. Opinions are like that, but some ideas permeate. And so this is something that I'm wrestling with myself, because I want to make things that endure. And I don't know how I've reconciled it, except to say this. I kind of realize I obsess over our app, Airbnb's app, its design, its interface, and yet no matter how great it is 10 years from now, I'm going to look at it and think it looks like crap. Because I look at the interface from 10 years ago and think it looks like crap no matter how good it was. Dated software never looks good. So then you've got to ask, what endures? I do think there are things that endure. Airbnb, the community endures. I started realizing the software won't endure, and the network effect will decently endure, but the ideas of Airbnb, its principles, its mission, the organization, the company, the brand, the identity, the logo, the voice, the community, what it stands for, those things will endure. Most importantly, the community. I realized at some point, I told the company, we're not building an app, we're not building a service, we're building a community, because that's the only thing that will last. I don't think there will be apps in the future. I think there'll be agents. So if we're attached to apps, I don't think there will be apps, so we'd better let go of that. So many of the themes that we've talked about is this steady progress and learning through time applied in service of others. What did bodybuilding when you were young teach you about steady progress over time? Weirdly, bodybuilding taught me so much that I can apply to Silicon Valley. It taught me two important principles. So I, just by way of background, my dad was really into ice hockey, wanted me to be an ice hockey player. Unfortunately, I was very skinny, I hit puberty really late, and I went to a sports academy for hockey. And when I was 13, I thought I could be a really good hockey player, but by the time I was 14, I didn't hit puberty until I was like 15 or 16, and that's a death sentence in hockey, because suddenly I went from first or second line to third or fourth line, and I went from thinking I'd be a Division I athlete to Division III athlete, and I'm like, okay, it's not really going to work out for me. And so I started weightlifting. I was like 135 pounds, and I told my friends I'm going to be one of the most, I want to be one of the top bodybuilders in the country by the time I'm 19, and they thought it was like out of my mind. I ended up, by 19, competing at the national level. And the first lesson I learned from bodybuilding was if you can change your body, you can change your life. It was actually the most fundamental thing to change. Everyone wants to change things around them, but what if you change you first, physically? And I even think, if you could start somewhere, a lot of people say change your thoughts. I would change your body first. Change your physical biology. If you're unhappy, I would get healthy before I go to therapy. That's first, biology. I think that fixes a lot, and then you can do other things, but really start with your physical biology. If you can change your body, you can change your life. It was the ultimate expression of empowerment. Okay, now I changed my body, what else can I change? It's a metaphor for eventually you can design the world around you. I can change your body. I can change my environment. Eventually, I can change the world. It's like you just go inside out. The other thing it taught me, which might be even more helpful, is that you can't get in shape in one day. If you go to the gym and work out for like 20 hours, you're not going to get in better shape. In fact, you're going to overtrain. And the way you get stronger is an adaptation from progressive overload, that you basically stress the body, the body doesn't get stronger during exercise, it actually breaks the muscles down, and it's an adaptive response, like an immune system, it gets stronger, and you just keep doing it. The basic idea is that you can't get in shape in one day, and it's about 1% better every single day. I mean, if you compound 1% a day, then you can actually have massive gains. And so it's really about discipline. And it's also very analytical. Bodybuilding is this wonderful thing where it's judged, it's a subjective sport that you judge visually, but you measure it scientifically. You weigh your food, you have to put yourself on the right caloric deficit, you have to write down your training, you have to write down your weights. It's taught me to be very analytical, metrics-driven, and that it's really about discipline consistency. And I think that's important because I think a lot of founders just give up too early. It's about discipline. And it's about, if you train for a month, you take a month off, you're starting over. And that's the key. You never quit. You just keep going. One of the nice things about it is the visual feedback, you can judge visually, you can literally see it, you can look in the mirror, other people can look at you and say you've been working out. Probably some of the skills that you would want to apply the same progressive overload thing to as a leader are very invisible. How do you figure out the objective function? How do you apply that same thing to something else that other people can't see? Well, that's interesting. I start trying to focus on how good of a company I am as I take it to projects. So I'll give you one example of a project I focus on. One is I want to build the best team possible. So I basically, twice a year, we do this giant thing we call Roadmap Review, and there's the top 100 people in the room, and I see the quality of people in the room. And we did one in the last two days. And then one of my most important jobs, the most important job I do at Airbnb is hiring. That's a whole separate topic. And the visual feedback is every twice a year, I get the top 100 people in the room, and I can see the quality of the people in the conversation. So in other words, there's many metrics that you use, and I obsess over it. Maybe it's the app, and I just look at the design of the app. Maybe it's like how well the company operates, and I look at decision making. It's always about breaking the problem down to something that's observable and measurable. By the way, just on this, because this is a really important point, basically as a leader, you can choose if you want to spend time hiring or managing, one or the other. The better the people, the less they need to be managed. The more time you spend on recruiting, the less time you have to spend on management. It's one-to-one. I remember when I was starting Airbnb, Sam Altman, who obviously everyone knows now as OpenAI, he was like a kind of wunderkind, because I was one of the first Sequoia-funded companies. Before me were two people that had ever been funded by Sequoia from Y Combinator, Drew Houston from Dropbox, but the first one, Sam Altman, it was a company called Looped. It was kind of like a way to see your friends on a phone before the iPhone. I remember him telling me, I was like 27 or 28, Sequoia just funded us, $600,000, a $3 million post-money valuation, highest valuation Y Combinator. Now the average valuation is $30 million, and he said, you're going to spend 50% of your time on hiring. I never did, by the way. It was my death blow, not spending more time on hiring. The less time I spent on hiring, the more time I spent managing. I started learning my number one job was hiring. Every day I wake up, the first person I call is my recruiter. I actually think if you could have, I think people should think about their first employee being a recruiter, not an engineer, because they are the most important person, because they are the ones that get you every other person. A company is as good as its people. The difference between the good companies and the great companies are the people. I think AI kind of makes that clear now, that what's all about the people, but I obsess. I obsess over recruiting. I spend hours a day, and I don't just recruit executives, I recruit two, three layers deep. What are you doing? Are you beyond talking to them? I try to map out all the best people in the valley. In the basic way, okay, here's how you hire good people. Do not do searches. Do not do searches, generally. What you want to do is build pipelines. Here's the mistake people make when they hire. They do, I need to hire a blank. They do a search, they hire a search firm. The search firm scans, they give you 50 profiles, and then you cool it down to 10 people. You contact 10, five are interested. The five that are interested, you interview them. A couple drop out, now you have three candidates, and you pick the best one you hire. That's how almost everyone ... Then you do references. You ask them for references. They give you a few references, and of course they're positive. Then you hire them, and then you let them do their thing. A year later, you realize they're good or bad, and if they're bad, uh-oh, they've already hired their own team. That is the wrong way to do it. The best way to do it is pipeline recruiting. You're constantly recruiting, you're constantly meeting people. This is what you do. You basically are constantly meeting people. Let's say I need to hire really good engineers. I don't do searches. I just informationally meet the best engineers in the world. Every meeting, the job is to get the next meeting. Meet someone else. If I were to meet you, and I say, hey, who's the best people you know, can you introduce me to two or three people? What you're doing is you're constantly meeting people in advance of searches, and you're just building your pipeline. You just need to know lots of talent, and all of it's referral based. The two ways to find out if people are good ... I mean, one way is you're just good at assessing talent. The two best ways is start with the results, work backwards with people. A lot of people say, oh, I want a really good marketer. I'm going to go to Nike. They do really good marketing. No, don't do that. Find an ad you like, and then figure out who made that ad. Start with the results. Work backwards with people. Don't start with the resume. The other thing to do is just keep asking people to build your Rolodex. I'm constantly building a Rolodex. The moment I find somebody that's really good, I ask them who all the best people they know are. You basically build these little mafias. Every company's got a little mafia of talent, so Uber's got an ops mafia, and Apple's got a design mafia, and then you build these little ecosystems, and they tell you who the other good people are, and you're constantly finding more people, more people. What I do is I am the co-hiring manager for the top 200 people in the company. This is very radical. A lot of CEOs think it's their job to hire their executives, and their executive team hires their team. I think that is fatal. I mean, theoretically, yes. Theoretically, you should live in a world where you have such good people, they can all hire their own people. Most entrepreneurs, if they have 10 executives, would be lucky if two or three are able to do that without any support or help. In other words, you always want to be mirroring up, hiring people of the future. I sometimes used to say, my executives should hire people so good, they would never work for them without my help. In other words, it should be like we're reaching. If you can hire them without my help, we're not reaching far enough. You want to hire the very best person you can. So I'm constantly meeting people, constantly interviewing. The first and last call I make every day is the recruiting team. Still. Still. I probably spend two, three hours a day on it. Every day, every year, I spend more time on recruiting the less. By the way, in the 2000s, I didn't. I thought it was all about having a good idea, having a recruiting machine, managing people. The great thing is I don't manage as much anymore. The more time you spend on recruiting, the less time you spend on management, because the really good people are self-managing. This is amazing. If you have to manage people, then maybe you should think about upgrading the talent. You said before that founders are born, you think, and CEOs can be more shaped? For the most part. Maybe the caveat to that is just maybe founders aren't born, but we spend our whole life tinkering and building. You know what I mean? But you can't simulate being a CEO. I was going to ask whether or not you think they're activated in some way. Maybe there's the raw material, but then some event happens. Sean from Palantir would call this the Bruce Banner gamma rays thing or something. What have you learned about activating talent? I think the way to activate somebody is to give them a problem or opportunity and see if they can do it. I think the people that have a high level of agency are going to do it. I don't know how to teach motivation. I don't know if it can be taught, by the way. I don't know if you can teach. I think you can motivate people, but I don't think you can make a person who's not motivated motivated. But I think all entrepreneurs have the trait of they're self-motivated. It's really about giving them a challenge, and then it's up to them to step in and activate. Having plugged the leaky bucket of motivation, of adulation, what's your motivation now as you attack this next chapter? Most of my heroes are artists. I'll pick four people, two I've mentioned repeatedly, Leonardo da Vinci, Vincent van Gogh, Walt Disney, Steve Jobs. There's many things they had in common, but what is something they all had in common? The last day of their life, or the last week of their life, they were working. Leonardo da Vinci carried the Mona Lisa with him until he died, and he definitely didn't pay the Mona Lisa for adulation because he never showed it to anyone. Vincent van Gogh sold one penny in his life. He died an obscure artist in the cornfield, unclear what happened, but did it because he loved it. Walt Disney, last day of his life, he was laying in a hospital bed. His brother, Roy, was rubbing his cold feet, dying of lung cancer, looking at the ceiling tiles, which were a grid, imagining Disney World. Steve Jobs, a hiroki said the last couple weeks of his life, he showed him marketing. He was still looking at products. Some people can look at that and interpretation as, oh, that's sad. They weren't spending time with family. By the way, Vincent van Gogh and Leonardo da Vinci didn't have families. My understanding is Steve and Walt spent time with their family at the end of their life. But I don't see that as a sad story, their working in the end, because I think they did what they loved. And Mozart, the great artist in history, did what they loved. My motivation is the motivation of an artist. I remember asking, I just want, my motivation is to create something great. That is my motivation. I would like to be successful. I want our shareholders to get a return. I would like employees to feel that they're at a great company. I would love to make a huge impact in the world, but mostly I just want to make something. I feel like I'm a designer more than I am a CEO, and I might be afforded one of the biggest canvases of any designer in human history, because usually designers are just not given this many resources. It's almost like a glitch in the system. I figured it was almost accidental. Some airbeds allowed me to crack this glitch and get all these resources I wasn't supposed to get, but I'm not letting go. And so my motivation is that of an artist. I just want to make incredible things. It's a beautiful, almost closing thought, given the tools now at our disposal, that everyone can do that if they want. I think everyone's an artist. All children are born artists. The problems remain one as you grow up. AI is the opportunity for all of us to become artists and scientists and creators. We don't have to be consumers anymore. We can be creators. What a shift. True creators. When you hear the word creator, you think social media performer. That's one way to create. You can perform. The problem is I think creator has meant performance. Now creator can be create, make. Everyone can make now. It's amazing. Maybe I'll just share one other thought. God, this seems like the most exciting time to be alive, like in human history. I mean, I'm kind of biased, but this is the greatest invention probably in human history, AI. It is the ultimate creative expression. It is the ultimate platform shift of platform shifts of platform shifts. The most recent Why Come to Dinner, I looked at all the entrepreneurs in the audience and I said, I'm kind of jealous because here I am on stage pretending like I'm the successful guy talking to you, the young kids. Two, three years ago, I used to say I would never do it all over again because I'm afraid I would never have this level of success again. Part of me wishes I could be 26 and get rid of all success and see what's possible again. Then I realized it's ages to number. I can still act like I'm 26. I'm still young. I still got more in me. I'm just getting started. We're all just getting started. This is the most exciting time to be alive and my God, like we can design anything now. It's unbelievable. The last question I ask everyone's the same. What is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you? Oh, that's such a good question. The kindest thing, the biggest gift anyone's given me is believe in me and I think the biggest gift you can give somebody or one of the biggest gifts is believe in you. A couple examples. When I was 16 years old, I transferred to a public high school. I was really into art. I was a pretty good artist. I didn't know how good I was and I had a teacher named Miss Williams and she believed in me. I remember telling her, telling my parents, he's going to be a famous artist. I never became a famous artist, but it gave me confidence that I was actually good at something because I wasn't that good at hockey. I wish I was and I wish I could make my dad proud of ice hockey. I just didn't get very far. Suddenly, that belief set me on a path. That moment I said, I'm going to go to art school. That moment I realized I can decide to be happy the rest of my life. When you're a child, you do things because you're forced to and like 20% of your life you get to do whatever you want and 80% of your life you can go to school and you do things and you're forced to do them. I said, I can be happy the rest of my life. I came to Silicon Valley. I met Michael Seibel and the guys at Justin.TV and they believed in me. They were early YC people. Paul Graham made an exception to let me in early at Y Combinator. He believed in me. I was an engineer and he almost never funded non-engineers. He thought the idea was not a good idea actually. He said, people are actually doing this? I go, yes. He goes, what's wrong with them? But he believed in me. My investors, I can go down the list of investors, they believed in me. Joe and Nate believed in me. I had no business being a CEO. Joe somehow believed in me. I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the generosity of people believing in me and in helping me. I think the greatest gift I can give back in believing in others and help them and not pull the ladder up behind me, but to really show them. I had the great privilege to eventually join the Giving Pledge and you have to write a letter. I remember my letter was, if you could ask my high school teachers who would join the Giving Pledge, they wouldn't have guessed me. The basic idea in my life philosophy is we all have unknown potential. I think we have these stories in our own head about what we're capable of. To go back to John Wooden, somebody once asked him, I think, like what's the secret to success? He said, I only ask my players to do their very best. The person goes, oh wow, that seems weird. That sounds like what a parent says to the kid who loses all the time. He goes, here's the catch. I saw potential in people they didn't see in themselves. That's my management philosophy. When I tell somebody it's not good enough, I'm not saying you're not good enough. I'm saying I see potential and you don't see it in yourself. That is the most motivating thing you can do, to say I believe in you and I believe you can do even more. People will, they will climb a mountain for that type of thing. Maybe the way to finally end this whole conversation is the most important person ever that you can believe in is yourself. I think a lot of us that are entrepreneurs, we're driven by insecurity. We're driven by some hole. Not all of us, but a lot of us. Something in our childhood, something, a lot of us were not the coolest kids or whatever. There's something in us you wanted to prove and then you get really successful and you still have imposter syndrome. A lot of the path to happiness and salvation is just the path of learning to believe in yourself. For me, I only believed in myself long after other people believed in me. Now my gift is to try to give it to others. Beautiful place to close. Brian, thanks for your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, man. You know how small advantages compound over time? That's true in investing and just as true in how you run your company. Your spending system is your capital allocation strategy. Ramp makes it smarter by default, better data, better decisions, better economics over time. See how at ramp.com slash invest. As your business grows, Vanta scales with you, automating compliance and giving you a single source of truth for security and risk. Learn more at vanta.com slash invest. Every investment firm is unique and generic AI doesn't understand your process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform built specifically for Wall Street, connected to your data, understanding your process and producing real outputs. Check them out at rogo.ai slash invest. The best AI and software companies from open AI to cursor to perplexity use WorkOS to become enterprise ready overnight, not in months. Visit workos.com to skip the unglamorous infrastructure work and focus on your product. Ridgeline is redefining asset management technology as a true partner, not just a software vendor. They've helped firms 5X in scale, enabling faster growth, smarter operations and a competitive edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see what they can unlock for your firm.
